= trick_serial

Trick Serializers using Proxies

Serialize objects using Proxies to trick serializers (e.g.: Marshal) to 
not store entire object graphs (e.g.: ActiveRecord object).

trick_serial supports CGI::Session and Rack sessions to allow ActiveRecord::Base objects
to be stored directly in a session.  If the object has an id, it is stored in the session
as a proxy object composed of the object's class name and id.  The object is restored from
the database only if referenced through the session.

trick_serial can be used independently of ActiveRecord and Session.  It can be configured to
use serialization proxies for any classes.

trick_serial maintains object identity during serialization.

== Features

Support for CGI::Session::FileStore, CGI::Session::PStore and Rails 1.2 CGI::Session::MemCacheStore.

== Usage

=== ActionController session example

  module AuthenticatedController
    def user
      # User.find(...) is executed on the demand of session[:user].
      @user ||= session[:user] 
    end
    
    def user= x
      # [ x.class.name, x.id ] is serialized in place of User object in session[:user].
      @user = session[:user] = x 
    end
  end
  
  class UserController < ActionController::Base
    include AuthenticatedController
    
    def login
      if u = User.find(:first, :conditions => [ 'name = ? AND password = ?', params[:login], params[:password] ])
         self.user = u
         redirect_to :action => :home
      end
    end
    
    def logout
       self.user = nil
       redirect_to :action => :login
    end
    
    def home
      render :text => "You are #{user ? user.login : "NOT LOGGED IN!"}"
    end

    def update
      raise unless user
      user.attributes = params[:user]
      user.save!
    end
  end

== Configuration

=== Rails 1.2 

Inside your Rails::Initializer block:

  Rails::Initializer.run do |config|
    ...
    # Configure trick_serial for Rails 1.2 MemCache Sessions:
    begin
      require 'action_controller/session/mem_cache_store'
      require 'trick_serial/serializer'
      require 'trick_serial/serializer/cgi_session'
      
      # This must be done after all session-related code is loaded:
      TrickSerial::Serializer::CgiSession.activate!
      
      # Create a serializer instance.
      serializer = TrickSerial::Serializer.new
      
      # Enable logging:
      if false
        serializer.logger = Log4r::Logger[:mylogger]
        serializer.logger_level = :debug
      end
      
      # Instruct the serializer to create proxies for instances of any subclasses of:
      serializer.proxy_class_map = { 
        ActiveRecord::Base => TrickSerial::Serializer::ActiveRecordProxy,
      }
      
      # Options used in CGI::Session.new(@cgi, options) from ActionController::Base.
      # See ActionController::SessionManagement for details.
      ActionController::CgiRequest::DEFAULT_SESSION_OPTIONS.
        merge!({
                 'database_manager' => TrickSerial::Serializer::CgiSession::Store,
                 'TrickSerial.database_manager' => ::CGI::Session::MemCacheStore,
                 'TrickSerial.serializer' => serializer,
                 'TrickSerial.logger' => Log4r::Logger[:mylogger],
                 'TrickSerial.logger_level' => :info,
               })
    end
    config.action_controller.session_store = TrickSerial::Serializer::CgiSession::Store
    ...
  end

=== Rails 3

COMING SOON!

== Contributing to trick_serial
 
* Check out the latest master to make sure the feature hasn't been implemented or the bug hasn't been fixed yet
* Check out the issue tracker to make sure someone already hasn't requested it and/or contributed it
* Fork the project
* Start a feature/bugfix branch
* Commit and push until you are happy with your contribution
* Make sure to add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Please try not to mess with the Rakefile, version, or history. If you want to have your own version, or is otherwise necessary, that is fine, but please isolate to its own commit so I can cherry-pick around it.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2011 Kurt Stephens. See LICENSE.txt for
further details.

